---
layout: post
title:  "Three"
subtitle: "Code Poems"
date:   2015-02-09 07:00:00
published: true
categories: >
  week
  class
---

> Software is deeply woven into contemporary life—economically, culturally,
creatively, politically—in manners both obvious and nearly invisible. Yet
while much is written about how software is used, and the activities that
it supports and shapes, thinking about software itself has remained largely
technical for much of its history. Increasingly, however, artists, scientists,
engineers, hackers, designers, and scholars in the humanities and social
sciences are finding that for the questions they face, and the things they
need to build, an expanded understanding of software is necessary. For
such understanding they can call upon a strand of texts in the history of
computing and new media, they can take part in the rich implicit culture of
software, and they can also take part in the development of an emerging,
fundamentally transdisciplinary, computational literacy. These provide the
foundation for software studies.

*here's what we'll cover:*

- look at p5 sketches
- recap previous reading
- Processing Part II

*for next week:*

- [watch Zach Lieberman talk about code poems](http://vimeo.com/69437363)
- continue working on project 1


<div class="expander">
  <a href="javascript:void(0)" id="js-expander-trigger" class="expander-trigger expander-hidden demo">Conditionals</a>
  <div id="js-expander-content" class="expander-content" markdown="1">

Conditionals allow your program to perform different computations or actions depending on whether a
programmer-specified condition evaluates to true or false. -wikipeda

#####Conditional Operators
    // RELATIONAL OPERATORS
        < //less than
        >= // greater than or equal to
        == // equality
        <= // less than or equal to
        > // greater than
        != // inequality

    // LOGICAL OPERATORS
        || // logical OR
        && // logical AND
        ! // logical NOT

#####Conditional Statements
    //if statement
        if(expression) {
            statements
        }
    //if else
        if(expression) {
            statements
        }
        else {
            statements
        }
    //if else if
        if(expression) {
            statements
        }
        else if(expression) {
            statements
        }
        else {
            statements
        }

#####Keyboard Input
    if(keyPressed == true){
       //code will run when a key is pressed
    }
    if(keyPressed == true) && (key == ‘a’)){
        //code will run when a key is pressed
        //AND that key is the ‘a’ key
    }
    //is alphanumeric
    if((keyPressed == true) && (key >= 32) && (key <= 126)){
        println(key);
    }

#####Switch Statements
Switch works like an if else, but for multiple else statements. It’s referred to as a switch case
statement.

    void keyPressed(){
       if(keyCoded){
           switch(keyCode){
               case ‘a’:
               println “You pressed the a key.”;
           break;
               case ‘b’:
               println “You pressed the b key.”;
           break;
               default:
               println “Key not supported.”
           break;
       }
    }

  </div>
</div>

<div class="expander">
  <a href="javascript:void(0)" id="js-expander-trigger2" class="expander-trigger expander-hidden demo">Images</a>
  <div id="js-expander-content" class="expander-content" markdown="1">


Displaying an image is a three step process.

    PImage img; 
    img = loadImage("myImage.jpg"); 
    image(img, 0, 0);

**PImage img** - First, you must use the PImage datatype to initialize a variable.

**img = loadImage("myImage.jpg")** - Second, you have to load in an image with loadImage.  The image must be in your sketch's data folder.

**image(img, 0, 0)** - Finally use the image function to display the image.



#######Try this example: File -> Examples -> Basics -> Image -> LoadDisplayImage

_Images can be used in the background function, however the image size and the sketch size need to be the same._

    background(img);

####PImage Methods:

tint – used to tint an image or set an image’s alpha value 

filter – THRESHOLD, GRAY, INVERT, POSTERIZE, BLUR, OPAQUE, ERODE, or DILATE 

blend – blend two or more images together 

copy – copy pixels from one part of the window to another

    PImage img; 
    img = loadImage("myImage.jpg"); 
    image(img, 0, 0); 
    filter(POSTERIZE, 6);

Read: http://processing.org/reference/PImage.html for more info


####Pixels
Working with individual pixels is done through the get and set methods.

`get()`

`set()`

Example: File -> Examples -> Basics -> Image -> Pointillism

</div>
</div>


<div class="expander">
  <a href="javascript:void(0)" id="js-expander-trigger3" class="expander-trigger expander-hidden demo">Animation</a>
  <div id="js-expander-content" class="expander-content" markdown="1">


We've looked at many ways to introduce animations into our sketches, but we've only scratched the surface. Processing allows for advanced interaction and complex motion/ behavior.

#####Examples
File -> Examples -> Topics -> Animation -> Sequential

In this example the images for the animation are loaded into an array.  An array [ ]  is a datatype that is used to store a group of like data.  The stored information can be accessed and changed at any time during the duration of the program.  Reference the example on the portal as it’s too long for this page.

###Arrays
A container structure for storing like kind data.

* [] - array access operator
* Arrays are zero based
    * that location 0 is the first element, location 1 is the second, and so on
    * that an array of length 10 is numbered 0 through 9
* Items within arrays are referred to as elements

**Assigning & Accessing**

Assigning data to elements within an array

`myArray[0] = 50.5;`

Accessing elements within the array

`println(myArray[0]);`

**Methods**

length - returns the length of the array

`myArray.length`


</div>
</div>


<div class="expander">
  <a href="javascript:void(0)" id="js-expander-trigger4" class="expander-trigger expander-hidden demo">One Hour Code Poem</a>
  <div id="js-expander-content" class="expander-content" markdown="1">

    /*
     *
     * 1 hour code poem.
     * I just wrote this.
     * 02/09/2015
     *
     */

    // declare variables
    int w, h;
    float alpha;
    float deviation;
    float weight;
    float chance;

    void setup() {
      w = 600;
      h = 600;

      size(w, h);
      background(255,255,255);

    }

    void draw() {


      // add an alpha channel mapped to mouseX
      alpha = constrain(mouseX, 0, w/12);

      // add a deviation using the mouseY value to change it
      deviation = constrain(mouseY, 0, h/2);


      for( int i = 0; i < w; i++ ){

        // create a random deviation for each line being drawn
        float rDeviation = random(deviation);

        // set a random value for line color
        float randC = random(255);

        // declare the stroke color with the transparency value
        stroke(randC, alpha);

        // see key pressed functions for changes in weight
        strokeWeight(weight);


        /*
          draw verical & horizontal lines
          with the random deviation subtracted
          from each end
        */
        line( i, rDeviation, i, h-rDeviation);

        line( rDeviation, i, w-rDeviation, i);
      }

    }


    void keyPressed() {
      if (key == 'w') {
        weight = random(4);
      }

      if (key == 'c') {
        //  reset weight and redraw the background
        weight = 1;
        background(255,255,255);
      }
    }

</div>
</div>

<div class="expander">
  <a href="javascript:void(0)" id="js-expander-trigger5" class="expander-trigger expander-hidden demo">Processing Demo 1 - Conditionals</a>
  <div id="js-expander-content" class="expander-content" markdown="1">

    /*
    *
    * Day 2 Processing Workshop
    * Andrew Kaye
    * 02/09/2015
    *
    */

    // declare variables
    int w, h;
    int kittens;

    void setup() {
    w = 400;
    h = 400;

    kittens = 50;

    size(w, h);
    background(255,255,255);

    }

    void draw() {
    background(255,255,255);
    fill(255);

    rect(10,10,20,20);

    if( keyPressed == true ){
        if ( key == 'a'){
           //code will run when a key is pressed
           fill(255,0,0);
        }
        ellipse(kittens*2,kittens*2, 50,50);
    }

    if( keyPressed == true && key == ' ') {
        background(0);
    }

    if ( mouseX > 100  ) {
      stroke(255,127,0,120);
    } else {
      stroke(0);
    }

    }

</div>
</div>

<div class="expander">
  <a href="javascript:void(0)" id="js-expander-trigger6" class="expander-trigger expander-hidden demo">Processing Demo 2 - Bouncing Ball</a>
  <div id="js-expander-content" class="expander-content" markdown="1">
    /*
    *
    * Day 2B Processing Workshop
    * bouncing ball
    * Andrew Kaye
    * 02/09/2015
    *
    */

    // declare variables
    int w, h;
    int xVal;
    int speed;

    void setup() {
    w = 400;
    h = 400;

    xVal = 0;
    speed = 1;

    size(w, h);
    background(255, 255, 255);
    }

    void draw() {

    background(255, 255, 255);
    ellipse( xVal, h/2, 100, 100);

    xVal += speed;

    if (xVal == w) {
      speed *= -1;
    } else if (xVal == 0) {
      speed *= -1;
    }

    println(xVal);
    }

</div>
</div>



<div class="expander">
  <a href="javascript:void(0)" id="js-expander-trigger7" class="expander-trigger expander-hidden demo">Processing Demo 3 - Bouncing Ball w/ Loops</a>
  <div id="js-expander-content" class="expander-content" markdown="1">

    /*
     *
     * Day 2C Processing Workshop
     * bouncing ball with loops n' stuff
     * Andrew Kaye
     * 02/09/2015
     *
     */

    // declare variables
    int w, h;
    int xVal;
    int speed;
    int line;

    boolean keyDown = false;

    void setup() {
      w = 400;
      h = 400;

      xVal = 0;
      speed = 1;

      size(w, h);
      background(255, 255, 255);
      //  frameRate(4);
    }

    void draw() {

      // only draw lines if this boolean is true
      if(keyDown == true){
        // while loop
        line = 0;
        while ( line < h/2 ) {
          float r = random(255);
          float g = random(255);
          float b = random(255);
          stroke(r, g, b);
          line(100, 100 + line, 200, 0 + line);
          line++;
          println("adding a line");
        }
      }

      // draw a ball moving across the screen
      stroke(0);
      ellipse( xVal, h/2, 100, 100);

      xVal += speed;

      if (xVal == w) {
        speed *= -1;
      } else if (xVal == 0) {
        speed *= -1;
      }

      // for loop
      for ( int unicorns = 0; unicorns < w; unicorns+=10 ) {
        float r = random(255);
        float g = random(255);
        float b = random(255);
        stroke(r, g, b);
        line(unicorns, 50, unicorns, 150);
        println("adding a unicorn");
      }

      println("draw loop is ending");

    }

    void keyPressed() {

      if (key == ' ') {
        background(255, 255, 255);
        println("this is some text that means nothing");
      }
      if (key == 'a') {
        background(0, 255, 120);
        println("this is some text that means nothing");
      }
      if (key == 'b'){
        keyDown = true;
      }

    }

    void keyReleased() {

      if (key == 'b') {
        keyDown = false;
        background(255);
      }

    }

</div>
</div>
